CSc 3320: Systems Programming
Spring 2021
Final/Project: Total points = 100
THIS FINAL IS OPTIONAL
Assigned: 23th  Apr 2021, Friday   Noon
Submission Deadline (if attempting):   2nd May 2021, Sunday, 11.59
PM
(No extensions. If your submission is not received by this time then it
will NOT be accepted.)
Submission instructions:
1. Create a Google doc for your submission.
2. Start your responses from page 2 of the document and copy these instructions
on page 1.
3. Fill in your name, campus ID and panther # in the fields provided. If this
information is missing TWO POINTS WILL BE DEDUCTED.
4. Keep this page 1 intact. If this submissions instructions page is missing in your
submission TWO POINTS WILL BE DEDUCTED.
5. Start your responses to each QUESTION on a new page.
6. If you are being asked to write code copy the code into a separate txt file and
submit that as well. The code should be executable. E.g. if asked for a C script
then provide myfile.c so that we can execute that script. In your answer to the
specific question, provide the steps on how to execute your file (like a ReadMe).
7. If you are being asked to test code or run specific commands or scripts, provide
the evidence of your outputs through a screenshot and/or screen
video-recordings and copy the same into the document.
8. Upon completion, download a .PDF version of the google doc document and
submit the same along with all the supplementary files (videos, pictures, scripts
etc).
Full Name: Rafid H. Shaon
Campus ID: rshaon1
Panther #: 002-49-7367
All programs have to be well commented. Non commented programs will receive
0 points. Comments have to be easily comprehensible and concise.
1. [30pts] Copy the contents of this document into a text file. Make sure the
spacings and indentations are included.
Write a C program that reads the text file and then outputs
-- the number of characters (space is to be considered a character),
-- number of words (a word is any sequence of non-white-space characters),
-- number of lines.
Write a makefile as well.
2. Repeat question 1, but write a shell script instead of C. Makefile not
necessary. [30pts]
3. [40pts] Describe (briefly in 1-2 sentences) the following unix utility functions
and provide 1 example of it’s usage. You can refer to Chapter 13 in the Unix
textbook. You must NOT provide the same example from the textbook:
a. perror()
b. open()
c. read()
d. write()
e. lseek()
f. close()
g. monitor()
h. chown()
i. fchown()
j. chmod()
k. fchmod()
l. link()
m. unlink()
n. getpid()
o. getppid()
p. fork()
q. exit()
r. wait()
s. alarm()
t. signal()
u. kill()
v. pipe()
w. scp()  (also referred to as secure copy)